In this video, we're going to continue
using SQL queries and filters,
but now we're going to apply
them to new data types.
First, let's explore the three
common data types that you will find in databases:
string, numeric,
and date and time.
String data is data consisting of
an ordered sequence of characters.
These characters could be numbers,
letters, or symbols.
For example, you'll encounter
string data in user names,
such as a user name: analyst10.
Numeric data is data
consisting of numbers,
such as a count of log-in attempts.
Unlike strings, mathematical
operations can be used on numeric data,
like multiplication or addition.
Date and time data refers to data
representing a date and/or time.
Previously, we applied filters
using string data, but
now let's work with numeric and
date and time data.
As a security analyst, you'll often
need to query numbers and dates.
For example, we could filter patch dates
to find machines that need an update,
or we could filter log-in
attempts to return only
those made in a certain period of time.
We learned about operators
in the last video, and
we're going to use them again for
numbers and dates.
Common operators for
working with numeric or date and
time data types include: equals,
greater than, less than,
not equal to, greater than or
equal to, and less than or equal to.
Let's say you want to find the
log-in attempts made after 6 pm.
Because this is past
normal business hours,
you want to look for suspicious patterns.
You can identify these attempts by using
the greater than operator in your filter.
We'll start writing our query in SQL.
We begin by indicating that
we want to select all columns FROM the
log_in_attempts table.
Then we'll add our filter with WHERE.
Our condition indicates that the value in
the time column must be greater than, or
for dates and times, later than '18:00',
which is how 6 pm is written in SQL.
Let's run this and examine the output.
Perfect! Now we have a list of
log-in attempts made after 6 pm.
We can also filter for numbers and
dates by using the BETWEEN operator.
BETWEEN is an operator that filters for
numbers or dates within a range.
An example of this would
be when looking for
all patches installed
within a certain range.
Let's do this! Let's find all
the patches installed between March 1st,
2021 and September 1st, 2021.
In our query, we start with selecting
all records FROM the machines table.
And we add the BETWEEN operator
in the WHERE statement.
Let's break down the statement.
First, after WHERE, we indicate
which column to filter,
in our case, OS_patch_date.
Next, comes our operator BETWEEN.
We then add the beginning of our range,
type AND,
then finish by adding the end
of our range and a semicolon.
Now, let's run this and
explore the output.
And now we have a list of all machines
patched between those two dates!
Before we wrap up, an important thing to
note is that when we filter for strings,
dates, and times, we use quotation marks
to specify what we're looking for.
However, for
numbers, we don't use quotation marks.
With this new knowledge,
you're now ready to work on all sorts of
interesting filters for numbers and dates.
In the next video, we'll be able to
expand our filtering even further by
using multiple conditions in one query.